---
layout: post
date: 2013-01-05 21:47:46
title: Colgate - Does My Baby Have a Cleft Lip or Palate?
excerpt: One in every 700 babies in the United States is born with a cleft, or split, upper lip. Slightly fewer are born with cleft palates — where a direct hole exists between the roof of the mouth and the floor of the nose. 
category: content
---

One in every 700 babies in the United States is born with a cleft, or split, upper lip. Slightly fewer are born with cleft palates — where a direct hole exists between the roof of the mouth and the floor of the nose. Both conditions are serious and occur when the two sides of a baby’s face fail to unite properly in the womb, but no one knows exactly why. Cleft lips and palates have a tendency to run in families. Hormonal imbalances, nutritional deficiencies, and certain drugs used during pregnancy are possible environmental causes.The doctor who delivers your baby should be able to tell immediately if your baby has a cleft lip or palate. A cleft lip is easily visible, and a cleft palate — which can vary in size from a small crack to a large hole — will become apparent shortly after birth. Babies with cleft palates will struggle to feed. As they grow older, children with cleft lips or palates generally face eating, breathing and speaking difficulties, as well as psychological problems.Most hospitals are well suited to address the feeding issues babies with cleft palates suffer, but surgery is required to correct both of these conditions.If your baby is born with a cleft lip or palate, you will likely work with a team involving a plastic surgeon; a maxillofacial surgeon; an ear, nose and throat specialist; a general dentist; an orthodontist; and an oral surgeon.Surgically closing a cleft lip is simpler than repairing a cleft palate. The procedure is usually performed within three to four months after birth, and the scar should diminish as your child grows older.Surgery to close a cleft palate is usually delayed until your child is 1 or 2 years old, when their upper jawbone has reached normal growth. If the damage to their mouth is extensive, surgery may be further delayed until your child is between 5–7 years to prevent structural problems. If surgery is not possible or is unable to completely close the opening in your child’s mouth, a denture-like appliance called an obturator may be made to cover the opening and allow your child to eat normally.Depending on the severity of your child’s cleft palate, multiple surgeries may be required over an extended period of time. A plastic and/or maxillofacial surgeon will perform corrective surgery on the face, while a general dentist; oral surgeon; orthodontist; and ear, nose and throat specialist will make appliances to correct any defects.Your healthcare team should provide you guidance and encouragement during the difficult time from birth through surgery and recovery. With the advances in surgical techniques and corrective appliances, the outlook for children born with cleft lips and palates is excellent. As your child gets older, little sign of their cleft should remain. 